The teammates (During the defensive phase, attacking phase, counter-attacking phase, and counterpressing phase) 
The opponent (During the defensive phase primarily, during the other phases to a lesser extent) 
The space ( Equally important in all phases of the game) 
The ball ( More important during the attacking and defensive phases of the game than during the transitional phases of the game)


Directing the opponent team on strategically weak spaces while simultaneously protecting the important ones. 
Dynamically shifting as a compact block to force the opponent in spaces where they are adequately structured to win it back recurrently throughout the match. 
Nullifying the opponents best players by either cutting o his supply lines or his passing options to any other teammate when he is on the ball.   
By Synchronising cohesive movements with one another to repeatedly counter-press eectively when they lose the ball or press eectively when they seek to win the ball from the opponent.
----------------------
However as one can imagine, maintaining compactness requires a huge level of concentration and discipline from all the players in the pitch. 
And so there are times when a lapse in concentration or a single blemish from even one player totally collapses the compactness of the block leading to a goal 
or at least a goal scoring chance.

Compactness gives the team the benet of having players close by to press together, to cut o nearby passing lanes together, 
to counter-press over a small space more eectively together, 
to at times even hide the individual defensive liabilities of one other or a specic player in the team by proving numerical superiority in spaces around him, 
to combine more eectively in attack and thus in general control the match.

 When the team in possession switches the ball from one ank to another ank, the defending team also has to shift quickly, aggressively, 
and eciently in order to compress the space in that ball far side ank. Often, in trying to do so, spaces open up and horizontal compactness gets compromised

They may press or tackle the opponent with the ball actively and aggressively to win the ball back. They may also press passively to force a pass elsewhere. 
Additionally, players can also position themselves with the right body orientation with the intent of intercepting a pass. 
The teammates close to the defending player can perform certain actions too. 
They can choose to cover the position of their teammate, while blocking passing lanes to their direct zonal opponent. 
They could also choose to strictly stay in their zone and simply cover their direct zonal opponent. 

One of the most signicant advantages of being compact in zonal defending is that it invariably suggests that the defending team, upon winning the ball back, 
will always have a temporary numerical superiority. This, in turn, will be useful for them in order to bypass a counter press of the opponent, and then counterattack.

overload - more defenders able to tackle 

By having shorter distances between the furthest players both horizontally and vertically, a team will technically be covering less space, 
but they will be controlling much more. By having a compact shape, a team can enforce a much higher degree of control on an area of the pitch whereas if they were more spread out, 
then their spatial control will be far worse. Spatial control can be achieved through the numerical superiority within said space, 
which stops the opposition team from obtaining access and utilising the zone for any strategic benet. 
The overload improves the cover of passing lanes, restricts any usable space and minimises the possibilities from inside the block itself in order to force 
the opposition into circulating possession into an alternative and usually less strategically valuable space. 


The management of spatial control is a key factor in a team properly utilising compactness against the ball. 
In most cases of defending, there are spaces on the pitch which are not necessary to cover for the opposition cannot utilise it to provide benet, 
for what could be a number of reasons from lack of access to penetration from said area. 
Therefore the defending team can ‘cut the corners’ of the shape to ensure that the management is at its most eective, emphasising the key areas which need controlling whilst sacricing the spaces less valuable to the opposition. 
A simple and common case of this, which rarely varies depending on the opposition, is the narrow positioning of the outside midelders in Atletico’s 4-42-0. 
Instead of covering the wide spaces, they come inside to cover the half-spaces which are much more valuable to occupy.

Expanding on this, through maintaining a compact defensive block a team can focus on a specic space on the pitch. 
In most situations the optimal area to control is the centre as it holds greater strategical value for a number of reasons, 
such as a greater range of potential movements whilst it oers the best platform to access alternative spaces

Through control of the centre of the pitch, a compact defence can force the opposition into one of the most inecient attacking strategies – crossing. 
An analysis by Michael Caley (MC_of_A on twitter) found that headed shots and shots assisted from crosses have a conversion rate much lower than normal shots from the same position 
(you can nd the relevant analysis here (http://cartilagefreecaptain.sbnation.com/2013/11/15/5107438/shot-matrix-ii-pass-type-and-shot-type-orheading-is-super-hard)). 
It is a common sight than when the central passing lanes are covered with little usable space within the defensive block, 
the attacking team will resort to passing to the only free advanced player – the full-back. 
In a lot of these situations the full-back will then cross from a deep position – the most inecient position to cross from.


Identifying the Problem Setting out a Strategy Creating an Action Model Building an Exercise 
